---
id: 1.3objects-N-variables
aliases: []
tags: []
---

# Introduction to objects and variables

## Data and values:

- **data** is any info that can be _moved, processed, or stored_ by a computer.
- a porgram can acquire data to work w/ in many ways:
  1. from a file/ database
  2. over a network
  3. from user provided input
- **value** is a single piece of data.

## Random Access Memory:

- RAM can be visualized as a series of numbered of boxes that can be used to store data while the program is running.
- when a program run, **OS** loads th porgram into RAM. data that is hardcoded into program, is loaded at this point.

## Objects and variables:

- in cpp, **direct memory access** is discouraged.
- **object** represents a region of storage that can hold a value in memory.
- object w/ a name is called **variable**.
- in general programming, _object_ refers to unnamed object in a memory, a variable or a function.
  in cpp, _object_ has a narrower definition, that excludes functions.

## Variable definition:

Defining a variable:

```cpp
int main()
{
  int x; // define a variable named x (of type int)
  return 0;
}
```

**At compile-time:**

- compiler remembers, the need of a variable with name **x** and of **int** data type.
- when the identifier **x** is used, compiler will refers to this variable.

**At run-time:**

- each object is given an actual storage location (RAM/CPU register), that can used to store values.
- process of reserving storage for an object’s use is called **allocation**.
- once allocation has occured, the object has been created and can be used.
- an object is “created” once actual storage has been reserved for the object’s use.

## Data types:

- a **data type** determines what kind of value the object will store.

## Quiz time:

1. what is data?
2. what is value?
3. what is object?
4. what is variable?
5. what is identifier?
6. what is a data type used for?
7. what is integer?
